See
how strong this really is? We're going
to try and pull it apart.
>> Doesn't seem easy.
>> Yeah, I know.
>> And it's not breaking.
>> Zippers are surprisingly tough. See,
back in the 1910s, the inventor of the
zipper, Gideon Sundback, created this
ingenious machine for manufacturing the
zipper. [music] It takes Y-shaped metal
wire as an input, and it starts by
slicing the wire into small pieces.
>> [music]
>> It then presses down on these pieces to
create an indent on one side and a bump
on the other. And finally, it clamps the
two arms of each [music] Y-shaped piece
together onto this fabric. These zippers
were incredibly strong. That's because
>> [music]
>> for a tooth to become unpaired, it needs
to get some distance between itself and
its neighbors, enough for the nibs on
either side to pop out. But since the
machines space the teeth so precisely,
there was simply no room for that to
happen.
>> But there is a way for this mechanism to
fail. [music] Those zipper locks on
suitcases are kind of a scam cuz anyone
can just take a ballpoint pen, put it
between the teeth, and create an opening
in your [music] zipper.
I wouldn't rely on that too much.